Someone to come in and take over a corporation that
was $9 million in debt, that must have taken
somewhat of a gambling spirit. Well, I was 34 years
old, and at 34, I was willing to gamble more than I am
today. Did it look like it was a better opportunity
than staying with Lone Star Gas? Well, it did to me,
and of course, it was a very fortunate move for me.
But I... For a period of time, I did wonder whether I
had made a mistake, because it was a long way back
for a company that had to get started. I could
imagine so, yes.
What would you think would be some of the
outstanding developments in your area of
petroleum engineering, say, since 1938, that
you've come to Shamrock? Well, of course, my
experience in petroleum engineering was largely
while I was with the Lone Star Gas Company. When I
came with Diamond Shamrock, my experience was
administrative management. But I imagine you
kept up with the developments in the field to a
certain extent anyway. Well, to tell you the
truth, there's been so much progress made in that
field that I hardly speak the language anymore.
The science and engineering in the oil industry
has advanced beyond belief over this period of
time. You see, in my early experience in the oil
business, waste was the rule rather than the
exception. And there was an oversupply of both oil
and gas. And when I came up to Amarillo to work for
the Shamrock, oil was selling for 50 cents a barrel
and gas at a penny a thousand cubic feet. And nobody
gave much importance on reserves. For
perspective, what's it selling for today? Well,
the oil is selling for about $10 a barrel, and gas,
intrastate gas, is selling for $1,000 and more.
The interstate gas, the price is regulated by the
Federal Power Commission has been adjusted
upwards to 45,000 cents per thousand cubic feet.
And there's not much gas available
at that price. So it's an entirely new ballgame.
And in my early experience in the... oil and gas
business, mostly gas, while I was with the Lone
Star Gas Company.
I ran experiments and did a lot of development work
in the field toward conservation of gas, to cut out
the waste of gas, and wrote a number of papers on
that subject
during a time when no one seemed to be much
interested in conserving gas. But those
practices have developed to where now there's
very little waste. I served as chairman of the
engineering committee to study the panhandle
waste during the period of time when it was legal to
blow gas into the air to get the liquids out.
There's some four billion cubic feet of gas wasted
before they were able to get the laws passed to stop
the waste. I testified in the Senate
Investigating Committee and the coal committee
from Congress investigating that waste. And
finally, in 1935, they repealed the stripping law
and cut out this large waste of gas. but the
Railroad Commission had many, many lawsuits from
people resisting the law and challenging the law
before they ever were able to establish their
conservation rules and regulations. In a way, I
guess you could say that between, say, 1938 and
now, the biggest change has been, outside of the
increased technology, would be that earlier it
was a product looking for a market, and today it's a
market looking for a product. Well, that's true.
That substantially tells the whole story. And
when a commodity becomes valuable, then the
industry itself will eliminate the waste because
it pays them to do so.
I think the most recent Our last two former student
directories have you in and listed as being
involved in ranching and investments. When did
you get into ranching? About nearly 15 years ago.
And
or 12 years ago,
when I was getting ready for retirement, I
realized that I would have to have something to
keep me busy. I was interested in ranching, and
I've been, although this is not a good year in
ranching on account of the drought, it's been a
good occupation, a very interesting occupation.
Well, I can imagine where the drought would,
drought has been bad in a lot of places, I think. My
father has a small piece of property and runs about
50 cows, and In addition, I guess, to the drought,
there's been a pretty drastic drop in price,
hasn't there? Yes. Well, from last year to this
year, it's just about a little less than half of
what it was last year to the producer. Of course,
there are many problems
from the cost standpoint. Feed prices have
doubled in the last year, and the cattle prices
have halved. But these cycles have a way of working
themselves around. The most serious problem
right now in the cattle business is the drought,
the inability to grow the grass that you need, so
you have to buy more feed.
My father's property is in Lee County, Texas. In
that area, almost everybody that has any cattle
has a stock pond. or two or three for their cattle
for drinking water. How do you provide water for
your cows? Do you have a stockpile? I have both. I
have numerous windmills and surface tanks, but
the surface tanks are all practically dry right
now. And when the wind doesn't blow, and that's
seldom in the panhandle, but right now it hadn't
been blowing so much, and I was at the ranch
yesterday, and The windmills weren't turning,
and the surface tanks were dry, and so I began to
wonder if it was going to rain soon enough, I was
going to have to move some cattle. I can imagine. By
moving, you mean selling them. I'll move them to
other pastures where I still have water. I see.
Well, I know it was somewhat of a shock to my wife
yesterday when we were driving along, and I told
her that shortly we'd be crossing the Red River,
and she was very disappointed to see that it was
dry. Yeah. I've seen the Red River on a flood basis.
I had to come to Amarillo one time when I was a Lone
Star guest. I was at one of these hearings, and they
had every railroad bridge and every
highway bridge between here and Vernon was washed
out. And so the Red River is not always dry. I'm sure
it's not. Since you graduated from A&M, I think
you've kept a fairly close tie with the school. I
believe at one point you served on the board, did
you not? Yes, from 1953 to 59.
What would you say would be the most significant
developments that occurred at that period in
A&M's history? Well, it's a little hard since
progress is to be effective as a continuous thing.
It's a little hard to pinpoint it, but I served as
chairman of the building committee and we didn't
have as much money to spend as we needed to build
these new buildings as fast as we'd like to have had
them. Our income from the permanent fund was a good
deal less than it is today, and so we established a
priority list,
the board of directors did, and we reviewed that
from time to time, and we took these buildings that
we constructed during that period of time in the
order of priorities established by the board of
directors. Now, I see today how
much better A&M can function with the facilities
that they have been able to establish,
particularly in the last decade. that
you can see the effect that quality not only in
staff personnel but quality in facilities will do
for attracting students when you see that A&M is
facing its greatest enrollment of its history
this year. So I'd say that I hope that we got some of
these things headed in the right direction. I'm
very proud of the fact that Darryl Rudder came
during the time that I was on the board of
directors, and he had a great deal of vision. And we
charted the courses that were expanded and
improved upon later for the progress that's been
made. And I might say that I couldn't have a higher
regard for the job that Jack Williams is doing as
president of the school now. He has the vision, and
he was able to take over and continue and actually
accelerate the progress in these directions that
have been established. And it's all based on
quality. And I hope we never lose it. Well, I do too.
I've certainly been impressed in the three years
that I've been there, because I have known of A&M
for many years, having grown up 60 miles south of
there. But it certainly strikes me as being a
quality institution. and
I think is exemplified by one of the things which
Dr. Williams has said when our former librarian
decided, you know, Jack Smith decided to take a job
in New York, that Dr. Williams did not say, as some
people would have said, well, we've got X number of
dollars. We'll find us a librarian who will come to
work for that. indicated that we would find the
librarian we wanted, and then we would pay
whatever was necessary to get that person to come.
And I don't know whether you know who the new
librarian is or not. It's a lady from Ohio State.
No, I haven't met him. And I believe that at least
the people in the library are almost universally
pleased with the choice. Of course, the people in
the library were very much involved in making this
choice, which I think also is a good move on behalf
of the president, that the people under whom this
person would work would have a choice in choosing
that person. Well, it – Jack Williams' whole
philosophy and his execution of his principles
please me very much. He's a man who can handle
people, a man who has the vision he needs and the
educational background that he needs, and I just
hope he stays healthy and stays there and have a
long time. Well, I think there are a lot of people
who support you in that feeling, Mr. Dunn, and I
know I do.
I would imagine that the The naming of the
dormitory for you must have been kind of a
highlight of your career. Yes, it was, and a total
surprise.
President Williams called me one day and asked me
if I would give my permission for him to name a
dormitory after me, just out of the blue sky. And I
said, well, I'd be highly honored. So that's the
way it took place. Well, I had never heard anybody
explain how it took place other than the fact that
the board announced that they were naming one dorm
for you and one dorm for Mr. Kruger. And I know he was
very much pleased. I think he said that was the
highlight of his life. The day he spent there
during the dedication ceremonies, I guess. Yes.
Were you able to? Yes, I was there. With all of my
folks
okay I have tried to make a good citizen and I have
been engaged in a good many civic and other
activities but the one of the outside activities
that I am proud of is the opportunity I had to serve
on the Governors Committee of 25 to study the
education beyond the high school. It took 14
months. Another experience that I had that was
very satisfying to me was the job that I had as
chairman of the Century Committee to study A&M's
program for the future. And after another 14
months, we submitted a plan to the board of
directors, which has been a
good eel of it, has been accomplished, and has
taken place today. So you feel like that when you
have the opportunity for that experience, you do
have some small parts. and the progress that has
taken place. Somewhere, and I'm not sure from
whose office it came, we were able to pick up
several boxes of records of the Century Council. I
have looked at them rather hurriedly, I guess I
should say. Do you remember right offhand what the
origin of the name Century Council was? The origin
was that by the A&M's 100th birthday, they wanted
to set a goal to accomplish at the end of the
century, the first century of its history. I see. I
had it somehow in the back of my mind that it was the
century of the Morrill Act, which was in 62 was the
centennial of the Morrill Act. We gave our report
15. 15 years ahead of A&M's 100th birthday. Now
then, the 100th birthday is coming, more than 10
years of that's passed. So it's coming up, I
believe it's 1876. Yeah, I believe the centennial
year is officially to be January through December
of 76. Yes. So we will be in our 100th year of
classes, but will, in a sense, be riding the
coattails of the U.S. bicentennial, which is 200
years
for the United States Declaration of
Independence.
So you were making a plan for the future that would
be accomplished by the centennial. The theme of
our whole study was a plan for excellence. and
we divided our Century Council into
groups, committees. Each one held and recorded
all of the proceedings of every meeting, the pros
and the cons, and each committee made its report to
the council as a whole Then the council as a whole
voted on it, voted for it or against it. So through
that process, we were able to compile a consensus
report with no minority report brevity. Who
appointed the Century Council? They were
nominated from all over the state.
They had some 1,200 nominations.
And
I'm not sure, but that the board of directors
selected them from those nominations. I believe
that's the way it was. And it was the board then who
named you chairman of the council. Well, possibly
the board. Earl Rudder called me and asked me to
take the job. I would imagine on something like
that, at least the board would have approved the
selection, if not make it indeed, if they didn't
indeed make it themselves. Yes. Well, that was...
As I said, I have not had the opportunity to
thoroughly examine all the records, but I know
that there's some correspondence files there,
and I think there are some copies of the final
report there. But every... I'd rather imagine
some... Every session was taped and transcribed.
and distributed to the members of the group. And
then we had ample discussion, pro and con, on all of
these factors
for consideration. And it was a hard-working
group. We had a high attendance record, and we...
tried to do a good job, and I think we did. Well, that
certainly looks as though you did. As you said,
most of the things which the Century Council
recommended had been accomplished, and A&M has
certainly shown a substantial amount of
development in both quantity and quality. I was
real proud of a communication I got from Jack
Williams on the 10th anniversary of the Century
Council report. And he detailed specifics on what
had been recommended and what had been
accomplished in that 10 years. Yeah, was this a
published brochure? Yes, it was. I believe I got
one of those for the archives, too. I'm trying to
collect all of these publications that come out as
much as possible. And anything that records
anything of significance, I try to collect the
copies. Sometimes it's a little bit difficult to
find out where to get them, but usually with a
little perseverance you can do that.